Investigates trends in surface segregation for solid solutions. Note the
surface tension of an alloy can increase or decrease with introduction of a
solute (this is in contrast to liquid systems where it can only decrease).

The physical reasoning used in the paper is not based on the quantiattive data
but on the qualitative data of which components segregate as categories on the
quantitative data (e.g., in which quadrant does the segregation occur).  The
quantitative data are merely ratios of the pure component properties.  Hence
any statistics from, e.g., correlations of these quantities only inform the
bias of the sampling (note that one is limited in which metals form which
alloys, so while there may be bias, that may be "natural bias", e.g., there
aren't naturally occuring alloys which exist in that part of the phase space
because the variables aren't truly random). One is limited in the statistics
one can compute with only three categories especially with limited sample
sizes, e.g., the no surface segregation case has a sample size of only 6. One
can identify the coordinate quarter-plane in which the points arise (as is
done in the paper), and calculate the convex hull for the data set.

As a note on the sampling bias, it is unfortunate that it is not readily found
alloys for which the solute size is significantly greater but its bond
strength significantly less than the solvent, and similarly, for which the
solute size is signficiatly less but its bonds strength significantly greater
than the solvent. 

The solvent and solute convex hulls have no overlap except in the plot with
the heat of mixing correction, and then only due to one point. However, the
cases where no surface segregation appear are overlapping significantly all
regions except in the case of the heat of mixing correction, where it appears
to overlap the solute region less.

The Iron-Zirconium system falls off the correlation as expected given its
extreme epsilon (bond strength ratio) parameter.

Data source: F. F. Abraham and C. R. Brundle Surface segregation in binary
solid solutions: A theoretical and experimental perspective. New and repeated
data presentations made. Note the ORC service used to read the table has
utf-16 encoding.

This paper is widely cited (236 citations) and is an excellent example of the
use of Auger electron spectroscopy for surface sensitive composition (in fact
I recall reading in a history of Auger electron spectroscopy that it was
precisely for the purpose of obtaining metal surface compositions that the
technology was first developed). Despite the fact that the paper is
exclusively experimental and in Table II gives suggestions for binary alloys
to be investigated experimentally, the most highly cited articles citing this
paper are reviews, theoretical, and investigating ternary perovskites.
