Basic chemical reasoning, such as the high elevation of melting points for
oxides of alkali and alkaline earth metals, should be applied. Observe there
is no correlation between an element's melting point and its oxide's melting
point, though for the given sampled elements there emerge two clusters which
have a statistically significant positive correlation. This is an example of
Simpson's paradox.

The probability that a correlation coefficient is greater in absolute value
than 0.5 for uncorrelated variables is less than most significance levels,
though the correlation is far from predictive, reducing the prediction
interval for element or oxide melting point provided oxide or element melting
point only by around 20%. This implies is that the melting points of element
and oxide are significantly correlated, but there are other factors which in
sum explain more of the variance, under the valid assumption that all variance
can be explained because this is a physically deterministic system. Of course
element identities are not physical properties, and so cannot explain variance
in the physical sense, but they are highly correlated to other things which
can. For example, you can see that alkali and alkaline earth metals, except
zinc and aluminum, were in the split off group, and these form chemical groups
with fundamentally quantum mechanical and physical similarity.

Data source: taken from various sources found on google and research gate
(table 1 of Catalytic Combustion over Cheaper Metal Oxides). The oxide
chosen is the most stable or naturally abundant. Melting point in data set is
in degrees celsius. There is a paper "Melting Points of the Metal Oxides"
published in Nature, Volume 200 (1963), but I cannot access it at this time.
One may compare to the old (and likely unreliable) survey of "Compilation of
the Melting Points of the Metal Oxides", a NIST publication.
