Standard free energies of formation for metal oxides. To make an Ellingham
diagram the standard enthalpy and standard entropy need to be known
independently (many of these diagrams are freely available online). With the
chemical potential of other species and the reaction stoichiometry, the
predicted phase can be found. This script serves to rank metal oxide complexes
in terms of favorability under standard conditions.  The greater the
standard free energy of formation of the metal oxide, the greater the metal
oxide stability to temperature tends to be (the higher its melting point). For
example, alumina is famously difficult to process into aluminum because of its
exceptional thermal stability and requires special elecrolytic methods (see
Hall–Héroult process), and here has the most negative free energy of
formation.

Some notes:

The standard free energy of formation only determines a point at a given
pressure and temperature. This is effectively an isotherm, at standard
conditions, of the common Ellingham diagram for the free energy of formation
of solid oxides, which because of negligible pressure dependence (see below)
is a point.

Under the assumption that the enthalpy and entropy of the solid are constant
with respect to temperature and pressure, which is generally quite an
excellent approximation over a large range unlike for gases, the free energy
is a line with respect to temperature. Solid free energies depend only weakly
on pressure. It isn't unusual for high pressures, more than 100 times
atmospheric and often 1000 or 10000, to be required to induce phase changes.
This is because the energy of the chemical bond in the oxide is very sensitive
to interatomic distance. Also, the energy of the chemical bond is far greater
than the heat capacity of oxides, so enthalpy changes with temperature tend to
be negligible (the reason heat capacity is relatively small is because of the
rigidity of the bond. in ideal gases, there is zero bonding energy, so the
heat capacity is infinitely greater than the enthalpy due to intermolecular
forces. 

Even liquids, which have flexible bonds and higher heat capacities than
solids, still have high bond energy (approx. lattice energy - |heat of
fusion|) relative to heat capacity). For example, a common (standard
condition) heat capacity of oxides is around 100 J/(mol*K), when the lattice
enthlapy is at least 1 MJ/mol. Because of this, even for 1000 K differences,
the sensible heat is just 10% that of the latent heat.

Therefore, the Ellingham diagram tends to show lines, the lines having
different slopes slopes depending on the entropy penalty due to the
coordination number with the metal (a higher coordination number is a greater
entropy penalty and greater slope).

Data source: unknown, I had thought Wikipedia but can no longer find the
source. Includes in addition to solid oxides, sulfides, halides, and aqueous
oxides.
