Investigates the correlation of the MR and BHN. The MR decreases by about
order of magnitude as the BHN doubles by inspection (the least squares fit
gives a power of -3/2, which would give only a decrease of approximately 2.83,
and such wide changes in estimation are typical from loglog plots). Because
the MR is not even a well-defined quantity, much less a physical one,
inferences based on this can't be readily made. But it is clear that the
relationship is strongly decreasing even when there is no precise definition
of the MR.

The BHN, on the other hand, has an analytical definition based on measured
dimensions which result from the test (indentation diameter and applied load),
and can be modeled as a function of elastoplastic deformation using scaling
laws derived from analytical formulations of the problem and solving the
problem fully using numerical solutions to partial differential equations, as
done in  https://www.jstor.org/stable/2398559. In the Hertzian regime, from
Hertz's origination of the study of contact mechanics in studying refraction
changes from stresses on lenses in optics applications, the response is
determined by the thermodynamic (reversible, elastic) parameters of the
material in the Poisson ratio. In the Meyer regime, which all tests which
leave an indentation must go into as it requires plastic deformation, the
response may be modeled as a function of two material parameters: a power law
exponent for the stress-strain relationship, and a material specific "stress
constant" that nondimensionalizes the stress in the stress-strain power law
(Meyer's original law was strictly empirical, but see equation 1.5 in the
reference for a derivation in terms of the power law).  The reference does not
discuss this, but the BHN is correlated to the ultimate tensile strength (UTS)
provided a correction for the power law exponent.

One observation is that Tungsten is estimated to have a MR of 0.05, and not
provided with a reference BHN with which to correct for differences between
tungsten materials. Evidently machining refractory metals is hard, which has
implications for the design and manufacture of vacuum equipment or other
controlled atmosphere equipment such as lightbulbs which use these refractory
metals to obtain very high temperatures for applications like electron
emission and high visible to infrared irradiance ratio (the latter is commonly
called lumens/watts, but this isn't a ratio and confuses light with
visible light rather than electromagnetic radiation). The drawing of tungsten
into wire filaments was a famously difficult industrial process to develop
because of lack of ductility and brittleness.

Data source: Quaker Chemistry, extracted from "Skill Builder" pdf using Tabula.
